{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2818
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Bold;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue0;\red24\green24\blue24;
}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\csgray\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c12157\c12157\c12157;
}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\'00;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid101\'01\'00;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid2}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs24 \cf2 MGSC-410-01\
Finn Cameron and Levi Davis\
12/09/2024\
Capstone Project README\
\
Title:
\f1\b0  MGSC-410 Capstone Project: Used Car Price Prediction Model \
\

\f0\b Description: \
\

\f1\b0 Predicting the price of used cars using an XG-Boost model; includes data preprocessing, model training, and result visualization. \
\

\f0\b Repository Contents:\

\f1\b0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf2 - \'93cleaned_uesed_car_data.csv\'94 : Preprocessed dataset ready for analysis. \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf2 - \'93code_for_data_cleaning_and_preprocessing.py\'94 : Script for data cleaning and feature engineering. (Already executed; no need to rerun.)\
- \'93code_for_xg_boost_model.py\'94 : Main script for running the XGBoost model. \
- \'93code_for_eda_and_result_visualization.py\'94 : Script for generating EDA visuals and visualizing model results. \
\

\f0\b Instructions: 
\f1\b0 \
\
1) Run the XGBoost Model: \
\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0\cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
- Open the script: \'93code_for_xg_boost_model.py\'94.\
- Download the cleaned dataset: \'93cleaned_used_car_data.csv\'94 (already included in the repository).\
- Update the script to include the path to \'93cleaned_used_car_data.csv\'94.\
- Execute the script (run all Code). \
- Outputs include: Model performance metrics (Train and Test RMSE, MAE, R\'b2). \
\
2) View EDA and Result Visualizations\
\
- Open the script \'93code_for_eda_and_result_visualizations.py\'94. \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl0\cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 - \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Ensure the script points to the same dataset: \'93cleaned_used_car_data.csv\'94. \
\ls2\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 - \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Run the script\
- Outputs include: EDA visuals, including key trends and distributions; visualizations of model results. \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \

\f0\b \cb3 Results From Price Prediction Model:\

\f1\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 Training Metrics:\
RMSE: 3252.1683752932095\
MAE: 2274.206573296201\
R^2: 0.9521115575941768\
\
Test Metrics:\
RMSE: 3343.274362744262\
MAE: 2313.0770610796417\
R^2: 0.9495265767889076\outl0\strokewidth0 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 \cb1 \
Notes:\
\

\f1\b0 - The included dataset has already been cleaned, so there is no need to run it through the \'93code_for_data_cleaning_and_preprocessing.py\'94 script. \
- The original dataset is not included because it is too large to include in a GitHub Repository. }